<?% config.freshness.reviewed = '2021-04-13' %?>
<?% config.freshness.owner = 'jakobi' %?>

# NetEq

NetEq is the audio jitter buffer and packet loss concealer. The jitter buffer is
an adaptive jitter buffer, meaning that the buffering delay is continiously
optimized based on the network conditions. Its main goal is to ensure a smooth
playout of incoming audio packets from the network with a low amount of audio
artifacts (alterations to the original content of the packets) while at the same
time keep the delay as low as possible.

## API

At a high level, the NetEq API has two main functions: `InsertPacket` and
`GetAudio`.

### InsertPacket

`InsertPacket` delivers a RTP packet from the network to NetEq where the
following happens:

1.  The packet is discarded if it is too late for playout (for example if it was
    reordered). Otherwize it is put into the packet buffer where it is stored
    until it is time for playout. If the buffer is full, discard all the
    existing packets (this should be rare).
2.  The interarrival time between packets is analyzed and statistics is updated
    which is used to derive a new target playout delay. The interarrival time is
    measured in the number of GetAudio ‘ticks’ and thus clock drift between the
    sender and receiver can be accounted for.

### GetAudio

`GetAudio` pulls 10 ms of audio from NetEq for play out. The much simplified
decision logic is as follows:

1.  If there is 10 ms audio in the sync buffer then return that.
2.  If we have the next packet available (based on RTP timestamp) in the packet
    buffer then decode it and append the result to the sync buffer.
    1.  Compare the current delay estimate (filtered buffer level) with the
        target delay and time stretch (accelerate or decelerate) the contents of
        the sync buffer if the buffer level is too high or too low.
    2.  Return 10 ms of audio from the sync buffer.
3.  If the last decoded packet was a DTX packet then generate comfort noise.
4.  If there is no available packet for decoding due to the next packet arriving
    too late or a packet was lost then generate packet loss concealment by
    extrapolating the remaining audio in the sync buffer or by asking the
    decoder to produce it.

In summary, the output is the result one of the following operations:

-   Normal: audio decoded from a packet.
-   Acceleration: accelerated playout of a decoded packet.
-   Preemptive expand: decelerated playout of a decoded packet.
-   Expand: packet loss concealment generated by NetEq or the decoder.
-   Merge: audio stitched together from packet loss concealment to decoded data
    in case of a loss.
-   Comfort noise (CNG): comfort noise generated by NetEq or the decoder between
    talk spurts due to discontinuous transmission of packets (DTX).

## Statistics

There are a number of function that can be used to query the internal state of
NetEq, statistics about the type of audio output and latency metrics such as how
long time packets have waited in the buffer.

-   `NetworkStatistics`: instantaneous values or stats averaged over the
    duration since last call to this function.
-   `GetLifetimeStatistics`: cumulative stats that persist over the lifetime of
    the class.
-   `GetOperationsAndState`: information about the internal state of NetEq (is
    only inteded to be used for testing and debugging).

## Tests and tools

-   `neteq_rtpplay`: Simulate NetEq behavior based on either an RTP dump, PCAP
    file or RTC event log. A replacement audio file can also be used instead of
    the original payload. Outputs aggregated statistics and optionally audio
    file to listen to.
-   `neteq_speed_test`: Measure performance of NetEq, used on perf bots.
-   Unit tests including bit exactness tests where RTP file is used as an input
    to NetEq, the output is concatenated and a checksum is calculated and
    compared against a reference.

## Other responsibilities

-   DTMF: Receive telephone events and produce dual tone waveforms.
-   FEC (RED or codec inband FEC): split inserted packets and prioritize the
    payloads.
-   NACK (negative acknowledgement): keep track of lost packets and generate a
    list of packets to NACK.
-   Audio/video sync: NetEq can be instructed to increase the latency in order
    to keep audio and video in sync.
